---
title: Configuring
href: configuring-pyblish
---

# Configuring Pyblish

Besides being completely driven by plug-in, Pyblish also provides options to be configured further. Primarily in the form of exposing the various plug-ins to your various circumstances. You can do that, let's find out how.

- [Custom paths](#custom-paths)
- [User Configuration](#user-configuration)
- [Visualising Paths](#visualising-paths)

## Custom paths

The most important aspect of configuration is how you expose your plugins to your pipeline. Paths have three levels of configuration, each with its own benefits and disadvantages.

- [Via Python](#custom-paths-via-python)
- [Via configuration](#custom-paths-via-configuration)
- [Via environment](#custom-paths-via-environment)

#### Custom paths via python

Exposing plug-ins via Python is known as *registering paths* and can be done like this:

```python
>>> import pyblish.backend.plugin
>>> pyblish.backend.plugin.register_plugin_path(r'c:\my_path')
```

You can manipulate the paths further with the following functions:

```python
>>> pyblish.backend.plugin.deregister_plugin_path(r'c:\my_path')
>>> pyblish.backend.plugin.deregister_all()
```

To inspect which paths are currently registered, you can use this:

```python
>>> pyblish.backend.plugin.registered_paths
['c:\my_path']
```

#### Custom paths via environment

You may also inject plug-in paths directly into your environment. These will get picked up by Pyblish at run-time and augment any pre-existing paths already exposed via Python or configuration.

This is particularly helpful if you launch processes via a [wrapper][], which you can configure to append plugins relevant to your particular project.

```python
import os
import subprocess

custom_environment = os.environ.copy()
custom_environment['PYBLISHPLUGINPATH'] = "c:\spiderman_plugins"

subprocess.Popen('maya', env=custom_environment)
```

[wrapper]: https://github.com/abstractfactory/pyblish/wiki/Glossary#wrapperbootstrapper

#### Custom paths via configuration

But how do you actually add paths via configuration? If you head into the Python package, typically located here:

```
c:\Python27\Lib\site-packages\pyblish
```

And look within your `\backend` directory for a `config.yaml`. This file contains everything that can be configured about the internals of Pyblish, including plugin paths.

**config.yaml**

```yaml
paths: 
    - "{pyblish}/plugins"
```

In this YAML-formatted file you can see a rather odd looking path. This is the default plug-in path for Pyblish and points to an inner directory of the Python library called `plugins`. The curly-braces represents string-substitution; at run-time, this is replaced with the actual path to the Pyblish Python library.

- For a full view of this file, [see here][config].

# User Configuration

The user configuration is a special YAML file located within your HOME directory.

```bash
# On Windows, it may be located at
c:\users\marcus\.pyblish
```

### Creating a User Configuration

To create your own configuration file:

1. Locate your HOME directory
2. Create an empty file
3. Name it `.pyblish`, with a leading dot.

> On Windows, naming files this way can be quite the hassle. Here's a hint; try naming the file with a dot at the end - `.pyblish.`

### Using Your User Configuration

A user configuration augments the existing configuration.

You can think of it like a Python dictionary.

```python
>>> my_config = {'name': 'Marcus', 'favourite_color': 'Blue'}
```

Dictionaries have an `update()` method which adds missing and replaces existing variables with another dictionary.

```python
>>> my_config.update({'favourite_color': 'Red'})
>>> my_config
{'name': 'Marcus', 'favourite_color': 'Red'}
```

As you can see, existing variables were left alone, but my favourite color is now red! This is much like your user configuration works. Anything you add to this file will either add to, or overwrite the default configuration for Pyblish.

### User Configuration And Paths

Ok, so you now know where paths are being configured, but it's best to avoid tampering with files within an actual library; you would then run the risk of losing your work if the library were to be reinstalled or updated.

A better way is to augment this configuration with your own. This is where the user configuration can really show its true colors.

**.pyblish**

```yaml
paths:
    - "c:/my_configured_path"
```

By creating a user configuration and *overriding* the `paths` variable, we've stripped Pyblish of it's default path for plugins.

> WARNING: Be careful if choosing not to include the default path as some plugins may depend on what they do; such as appending the current working directory to your context at run-time.

To ensure Pyblish still has access to its plugins, copy its path from the default configuration.

**.pyblish**

```yaml
paths:
    - "{pyblish}/plugins"
    - "c:/my_configured_path"
```

# Visualising Paths

To inspect *all* paths exposed to Pyblish, including those added via PYBLISHPLUGINPATH and configuration, you can use this:

```python
>>> pyblish.backend.plugin.plugin_paths()
['c:\Python27\Lib\site-packages\pyblish\plugins', 'c:\my_configured_path', 'c:\my_environment_path']
```

This is can be great for debugging if you ever get lost in the midst of paths. You can also inspect configured paths individually:

```python
>>> import pyblish.backend.config
>>> pyblish.backend.config.paths
['{pyblish}/plugins', 'c:\my_configured_path']
```

> You'll note that the default path hasn't yet been expanded. This is due to `plugin.config` being a direct representation of the configuration file(s). No processing has yet taken place at this point.

Along with those added via the environment

```python
>>> import os
>>> os.environ['PYBLISHPLUGINPATH']
'c:\my_environment_path'
```

##### Configuration and its location

User-configuration defaults to your home-directory. With this, it is possible to maintain an overarching configuration on a shared drive that sym-links into each users home-directory.

- See [symlinking][] for more information.

However it may be beneficial to provide an option for where Pyblish looks for its configuration. Feel free to drop us a line (or a pull-request) with any ideas.

[symlinking]: http://www.howtogeek.com/howto/16226/complete-guide-to-symbolic-links-symlinks-on-windows-or-linux/
[config]: https://github.com/abstractfactory/pyblish/blob/master/pyblish/backend/config.yaml
