---
title: Publishing
href: publishing
draft: true
---

# Publishing

Let's start with the classic example of Hello World.

In this chapter, we will create one plugin for each of the four processes.

1. Select File
2. Validate Content
3. Extract Content
4. Conform Content

The plugins will (1) look for a file on disk in a certain format - JSON in our case - (2) validate its content followed by (3) serialising this content into a human-readable plain-text file.

The final step of the process (4) is to print a message to the user about where to find the results.

## hello_world.json

Our original source file will be a JSON formatted document. To create it:

1. Locate any directory on your file system
2. Create an empty file called "`hello_world.json`"
3. Paste the following data into the file
 
    ```json
    {"message": "Helo World"}
    ```

4. Save

> Note that the value of `message` has been misspelled.

For the intents of this guide, I will assume that you saved your file here:

```bat
c:\my_files\hello_world.json
```

## Creating Our Selector

```python
import pyblish.backend.plugin

class SelectFile(pyblish.backend.plugin.Selector):
    pass
```

This is the boiler-plate of our selector. You'll note that it inherits from `Selector` of `pyblish.backend.plugin`. This is the superclass to all selectors, much like validators, extractors and conformers have their own superclasses much like this one.

Their superclasses indicates to Pyblish that "*this* class is a plugin of *this* type" along with providing the framework in which to build our processing.

```python
import pyblish.backend.plugin

class SelectFile(pyblish.backend.plugin):
    def process_context(self, context):
        pass
```

The `process_context()` method is one of two important methods of plugins.

If you remember from the above chapter - [How it works][works] - there were two main objects of Pyblish, `Context` and `Instance`. Both of these may be processed by a plugin. `process_context()` is the method called upon when it's time to process Context; `process_instance()` is the other one.


[works]: #how-it-works