---
title: FAQ
href: faq
---

# FAQ

> How can I run a plugin individually?

Each plugin provides four methods of importance to you as a developer.

- process()
- process_all()
- process_instance()
- process_context()

`process_instance()` and `process_context()` is typically implemented within your plugin, whereas `process()` is what you'll use when actually triggering a plugin.

`process()` triggers both `process_instance()` and `process_context()`, ensuring that each plugin only processes compatible instances, whereas `process_all()` is a convenience method, turning `process()` from a generator into a method.

### Discovering an individual plugin

The first step in running a plugin is finding it.

```python
import pyblish.backend.plugin
context = pyblish.backend.plugin.Context()
my_plugin = pyblish.backend.plugin.discover('selectors')[0]
```

Here we discover all selectors, and grab the first one. If you know the name of the plugin you are looking to run, you can look for it by filtering through the available plugins:

```python
my_plugin = None
for plugin in pyblish.backend.plugin.discover('selectors'):
    if plugin.__name__ == 'SelectMyInstances':
    	my_plugin = plugin
```

As a convenience, you can also use the `regex` argument of `discover()`.

```python
my_plugin = pyblish.backend.plugin.discover('selectors',
											regex='SelectMyInstances')[0]
```

### Running an individual plugin

Once you've got a hold of your plugin, it's time to run it.

```python
my_plugin().process_all(context)
```

This will process each instance present within the context. However, if there are any errors, the subsequent instances will not be processed. To remedy this, you can use the generator.

```python
processor = my_plugin().process(context)
for instance, error in processor:
	if instance is None:
        # No instances were compatible with the plugin
        print "Plugin '%s' not compatible with instance." % my_plugin

    elif error is not None:
        # Something went wrong, and this is where you can handle it.
        print ("An error occured during processing of "
               "instance: %s, %s" % (instance, error))
    else:
        # Everything went fine, move along
        print "Instance '%s' processed well" % instance
     
```

> Why can't I subclass any of the plugins shipping with Pyblish?

The directory in which our plugins are provided to you isn't Python package. This means you can't import them and thus cannot subclass them. The reason for this is to eliminate any confusion to new-comers about how to get up and running with plugins.

The way to do this is via the `discover()` method, and not by importing plugins manually.

There is however nothing stopping you from making your own plugins subclassable. In fact, we encourage this as it facilitates code-reuse.

> What is the relation between this project and Pipi/Abstract Factory?

Pipi is an open-source, next-generation pipeline developed at [Abstract Factory][]. We take part in the development of Pyblish, but Pyblish is ultimately designed to run standalone and to be flexible enough to fit into others currently active pipelines, without compromising how things are typically done.

> Is this similar to project X?

By project X, you might be referring to other pipeline-related projects such as Shotgun, FTrack, 5th Kind, Tactic or even the newly announced Redcurrant. Pyblish wouldn't dream of such great endeavours and instead focuses on a very minimal mission of quality assuring outgoing data from digital content creation software. Other projects are better suited at organising and event-handling.

> I still have questions

Add a comment below, or [email us][email] and we'll get back to you asap!

[email]: mailto:marcus@abstractfactory.io
[Abstract Factory]: http://abstractfactory.io